README.md, before:

# E4418B-Keypad
A traced layout for HP/Agilent E4418B keypad flexible PCB and its function.

The SVG file contains a multi-layered vector graphics representation of the HP and Agilent E4418B keypad circuit found on the flexible PC within the front panel. I used opensource Inkscape, other tools will be available.

The SCH file has a simple matching schematic. It was generated with opensource Kicad.

Background...

The E4418B is a lagacy RF power meter that probably is still found on electronic workbenches. It requires the addition power sensor front end that is matched to measurement requirements. The combination makes a powerful, maybe costly, addition to a sophisticated workbench even today.

The keypad built in to the front panel surrounds the display enabling user interactive control. Construction materials are principally a flexible silicone membrane with keys that compress 'pads' within a multi-layed flexible printed circuit. The FPC can wear - cracking, delaminating and electrically 'leaking' resulting in malfunction.

In my own experience as in those reported by others, the power button can become unreliable or non-functional. Keys may function spuriously. FWIW darkening around the power pad in my case indicated possible ingress of pullutants, checmical breakdown, or growth of a mould.

Service information for the meter is available, but I could not locate layout information for the keypad. So here is what I found by tracing it and helped me while trying to characterize my own meter's fault(s) and may do so for another enthusiast. Repair is most likely by replacement of the FPC - sources can be found on the internet.

NH 2026.

Commit message:

Include disclaimer about information reliability
Added a disclaimer about the reliability of the information provided.

README.md, after:

# E4418B-Keypad
A traced layout for HP/Agilent E4418B keypad flexible PCB and its function.

The SVG file contains a multi-layered vector graphics representation of the HP and Agilent E4418B keypad circuit found on the flexible PC within the front panel. I used opensource Inkscape, other tools will be available.

The SCH file has a simple matching schematic. It was generated with opensource Kicad.

Background...

The E4418B is a lagacy RF power meter that probably is still found on electronic workbenches. It requires the addition power sensor front end that is matched to measurement requirements. The combination makes a powerful, maybe costly, addition to a sophisticated workbench even today.

The keypad built in to the front panel surrounds the display enabling user interactive control. Construction materials are principally a flexible silicone membrane with keys that compress 'pads' within a multi-layed flexible printed circuit. The FPC can wear - cracking, delaminating and electrically 'leaking' resulting in malfunction.

In my own experience as in those reported by others, the power button can become unreliable or non-functional. Keys may function spuriously. FWIW darkening around the power pad in my case indicated possible ingress of pullutants, checmical breakdown, or growth of a mould.

Service information for the meter is available, but I could not locate layout information for the keypad. So here is what I found by tracing it and helped me while trying to characterize my own meter's fault(s) and may do so for another enthusiast. Repair is most likely by replacement of the FPC - sources can be found on the internet.

This information is shared with good intent, it is not an authoritative reference obtained through my best but not faultless efforts and should only be referred to with the risks arising in mind.

NH 2026.
